
## Siddharth Lotia
- **B.Tech - Electronics and Communication Engineering**
- International Institute of Information Technology, Naya Raipur (IIIT-NR)
- Phone: +91-9406020745
- Email: siddharthlotia04@gmail.com
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/siddharth-lotia04/)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/Sidlotia)

### EXPERIENCE
- **Junior Research Fellow, MINRO, IIIT Bangalore** (Jul 2023 – Ongoing)
  - Working on EEG signals generated by the brain to study the effect of meditation using signal processing and machine learning tools.
  - Using signal processing, study the regions of brain signals that correspond to multiple things, such as stress, and mind wandering.

- **IoT Developer Intern, Chara Technologies, Bangalore** (Jan 2022 – Sept 2022)
  - Worked on a cloud connectivity project to send motor data to the cloud for related visualizations and analytics.
  - Worked on Embedded Programming on vehicle features for a famous EV company (name hidden for client confidentiality).

- **Research Intern (Mitacs Globalink), École de technologie supérieure (ETS), Montréal, Quebec, Canada** (May 2021 – Aug 2021)
  - Worked on efficient management of IoT Resources through Container Orchestration Techniques using Docker Swarm.
  - Also applied reinforcement learning to add self-adaptability to the purpose further.

- **IoT Systems Intern, Indian Institute of Technology, Bhilai** (May ’19 – Jul ’19 & Dec ’19 – Jan ’20)
  - Activity data (VeDBA) was collected from a monitoring tag over Bluetooth Low Energy System and its optimizations.
  - Worked on ARM Processor, I2C programming, and used CMake and MakeFile of the Build Systems.
  - Worked on Embedded Programming, which helped in Bluetooth Low Energy Advertisement System.

- **Research paper Published**: "On Achieving Hidden Markov Model Estimation Freshness in Sensor Networks" at IEEE ANTS Goa, India 2019.

### EDUCATION
- **B.Tech, IIIT Naya Raipur**
  - CGPA: 8.23/10
  - 2018-2022

- **Senior Secondary, CBSE**
  - Percentage: 83.2%
  - 2018

- **Secondary, CBSE**
  - Percentage: 9.6/10
  - 2016

### TECHNICAL/RESEARCH PROJECTS
- **Breathing Rate Estimator**
  - The project aimed to measure the person's breathing rate using the in-built microphone of your smartphone.
  - An anomaly in the value of breathing rate can be used to detect pre-symptoms of various respiratory diseases, including COVID-19, among others.

- **Convolutional Neural Network-based Criminal Detection System**
  - Criminal tendency in a person is detected with the help of semantic/facial analysis using various deep learning model architectures.
  - Research Paper Published: "Convolutional Neural Network Based Criminal Detection Technique" at IEEE TENCON Japan 2020.

### TECHNICAL SKILLS
- **Languages**: Embedded C Programming, MATLAB, Verilog, Python, C++
- **Software Skills**: Cloud Computing (AWS), Deep Learning Applications, IoT applications, Embedded Systems
- **Microcontrollers/Boards**: Arduino, Raspberry Pi, ESP8266

### POSITIONS OF RESPONSIBILITY
- **Admin Lead of Editorial Team Fenestra (2019-20)**
  - Fenestra is the official Students' magazine of IIIT NR. Led the initiative to re-introduce our institute magazine in a new state-of-the-art manner.

- **Vice-Secretary of CoMeT (2019-20)**
  - Comet is the Electronics Club of IIITNR and conducted technical competitions, talks, and workshops on trending topics from the world of electronics.

- **Press and Media In-charge Scientific (2020)**
  - Managed all press and media during the annual flagship event of IIITNR. Conducted interviews with special delegates regarding their experience of the event.

### ACHIEVEMENTS
- Awarded the Prestigious AICTE-Mitacs Globalink Research Internship 2021 by Mitacs Canada at ETS Montréal, Canada.
- Recognized by the Ministry of Education, Govt of India for the above achievement.
- Finalist of Samsung Prism (by Samsung Research Institute Bangalore) Hackathon Codefest 1.0.

